---
title: Agile workflows
---

The single biggest problem we have seen in development teams is the lack of an established
philosophy and process for managing the day-to-day work of the developers and ensuring they are
delivering business value. The confusion that stems from the lack of process ends up hurting the
team's performance and making stakeholders.

We also see a lot of teams designing their own informal processes, not stopping to consider more
established Agile methodologies because they are often deemed too complicated or "heavy". Workflows
such as Scrum and Kanban, however, have been battle-tested by hundreds of thousands of development
teams all over the world - they have been working in the wild for years.

At Nebulab, we believe in adopting a well established practice, trying to follow it to the letter,
and only tweaking it after experience. The end result of this approach is a workflow that leans on
the shoulders of giants, but also works for your unique needs and challenges. It will not only save
you time, but also improve the quality and quantity of your team's output dramatically.

When it comes to Agile development, the two most popular choices are Scrum and Kanban, so let's take
a look at the structure, pros and cons of each methodology.

## Scrum

In Scrum, the most important concept is the sprint, a fixed-length iteration during which the team
commits to delivering a certain amount of work. The content of the sprint is defined upfront along
with business stakeholders (represented by a Product Owner), the Scrum Master and the development
team.

Estimation is central to Scrum: the development team estimates the effort required to complete each
item in the sprint. The team's velocity is then judged at the end of the sprint, and the following
sprint is adjusted accordingly. Scrum does not mandate an estimation technique, but a popular choice
is [planning poker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planning_poker), where every feature is estimated
by the entire team.

The focus on velocity and the separation of responsibilities provide transparency to business
stakeholders and protect the development team from scope creep and unreasonable expectations. This
makes Scrum an excellent choice in large projects, as the process ensures business goals are
respected but executed in a way that is sustainable for the developers in the long term.

On the other hand, Scrum creates a lot of overhead, requiring you to designate a Product Owner
and a Scrum Master, and to plan for all the Scrum ceremonies. This can be very taxing for small
companies, where resources are limited and there is an absolute focus on delivering business value
with the smallest possible cost. Scrum also makes it harder to work in environments where priorities
are constantly changing, such as a startup that needs to quickly incorporate and validate
assumptions.

[Learn more about Scrum on the official Scrum Guide!](https://scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html)

## Kanban

Kanban is a methodology for managing human processes first introduced by Toyota in their assembly
line. In a Kanban project, there are no sprints, only a continuous flow of features that are
constantly being defined and prioritized by business stakeholders and/or the development team. The
development team then simply picks and executes on the next item in the backlog.

Contrary to Scrum, there is no designated Product Owner or "Kanban Master": the entire team owns the
kanban board and is collectively responsible for ensuring the process is being followed. There is
also no estimation involved - instead, the team defines the maximum number of items that can be in
each column/status of the kanban board. If a column contains too many items, then the team must work
on freeing up the column before new work can be started.

Kanban can be adopted without too much overhead, and the way it requires team members to collaborate
can make it the perfect option for tight teams that run high on confidence but low on time. The
focus is entirely on getting things done as quickly as possible, eliminating all ceremonies that do
not directly help achieve the end result.

However, Kanban also provides less transparency into team velocity and delivery dates than Scrum.
This can be hard to digest for business stakeholders, especially in large and established
organizations where a high level of planning and estimation is required for coordination and
budgeting.

[Learn more about Kanban in the Atlassian Agile guides!](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban)

## How we do Agile

If you are already using an Agile methodology, we will use that as a starting point. If not, we will
coach you and your team on Agile principles and practices and the value Agile can create for your
business. We will go over your current process or lack thereof, identifying issues and lost
opportunities, and choose the best methodology for your organization.

We will follow the process for a defined trial period, then we'll discuss what went well, what
didn't and how we can do better moving forward. The output of this discussion is a list of
improvements that can be applied to the process. At this point, the trial begins again.

This tight feedback loop ensures that no inefficiency goes unnoticed. In the end, you will have a
development process that works for you and supercharges your productivity!
