---
title: How we work
---

Here are a few notes on the way we work. Please read these carefully: we're a bit unconventional in
certain aspects and we want to make sure you're aware of (and onboard with!) our practices.

#### We work 4 days a week

That's right. We only work Monday-Thursday, while Friday is reserved for studying, team-building 
and open-source work. While we understand that this might be a challenge in some situations, we 
strongly believe that having time to learn new tools and technologies should not come at the 
expense of our developers' work/life balance, which is why we allocate 20% of the week to learning. 

If you're curious about what your team is doing in their personal investment time, just ask them! 
They'll be happy to share.
  
#### We work at a sustainable pace

The best developers come to Nebulab because it's a place where you get to do your best work without 
burning out. "Sustainable pace" means no all-nighters, no unrealistic expectations and no weekend 
work. We only work 9am-6pm Central European Time. 

We will happily accommodate a late meeting if it's caused by timezone differences or real urgency, 
and we will put in extra effort to help you get things done before that big event, but we won't pull 
a 12-hour day at a moment's notice.

#### We keep things lean

When you reach out to us, you will speak to a developer, not a sales rep. When you plan the 
development roadmap, you will do it with a developer, not a project manager. When you need to scale 
your team up (or down), you will ask a developer, not an account manager. See the pattern? 

We won't add any extra layers of bureaucracy on our end, and we expect you to do the same: keep 
things as human and straightforward as possible to improve development velocity and developer 
happiness. Don't worry, we'll help you in the process!

#### We don't like (useless) deadlines

If you have a real deadline, we will do whatever we can to accommodate it. A real deadline is one
that is motivated by a real-world event: perhaps you're changing warehouses and you need the new 
integration to be ready by the time you move, or you have a big marketing event coming up and you 
want people to see your shiny redesign. However, what we don't like is spending more time on 
estimating and putting dates on features than doing actual work. 

Most of the time, we work without deadlines, and things take as long as they need to take to be done 
properly. We know this might be uncomfortable for some, so we ask you to give it a spin and see how 
it works for your project.

#### We only bill for the time we work

We're very big on transparency here, which is why we will only bill you for the hours we've actually 
spent on your project, regardless of what was agreed upon. That means if you tell us you need 120 
hours/month, but we only manage to do 100, we'll bill you for 100 hours. If you want, we will also 
provide you with a report of _how_ those hours were spent and by whom (in fact, we have a client 
dashboard to do just that!). 

We're constantly looking for ways to improve the accuracy of our time tracking, so that you can 
sleep knowing you're getting the best possible value for your money.

#### We are opinionated

If we think that there is a better way to do things, we will tell you, whether that's about your 
planning process or the actual features you want to implement. 

That also means we expect you to be actively involved in the development of your product and be 
aware of what we're doing, not just assigning features to people. We believe that you're not just 
paying for our development work, but also for our experience and advice.
