---
title: Work schedule
---

Our typical working hours are 9am-6pm CET, with one hour dedicated to lunch.

Because we also use a time tracker to keep track of how many hours we _actually_ work on client
projects, you can expect an average of 7 billed hours/day, with the remaining hour being consumed by
breaks and other interruptions.

## Investment time

We also only work four days/week, from Monday to Thursday. Our Fridays are dedicated to study and
self-improvement: developers experiment with new tools and practices, work on open-source projects,
write new posts for our blog... Whatever makes them better professionals or makes Nebulab a better
company is fair game!

We know giving up 20% of the week is a huge undertaking for our clients, and we are extremely
thankful for this opportunity. With that said, spending some time to improve our craft every week
allows us to stay on top of our game and deliver more and more value every day. In other words,
these experiments have a tangible impact on the quality of the work we do for you!

Our investment time policy also makes Nebulab an attractive workplace for the top professionals in
our industry, which allows us to offer you an ever-expanding range of services.

As a rule of thumb, our developers will skip their investment time for up to two weeks in case of
emergencies, personal vacation, holidays or any other events that would reduce the number of work
hours in the week.

### What if I need more hours?

If you are afraid that 32 hours/week are not enough to accomplish what is needed, you always have
the option of scaling up the team.

However, most clients find that, even with only four days/week, their team maintains a velocity that
allows them to accomplish all the scheduled tasks. We suggest, at the very least, trying it out and
seeing what works for you.

## Timezones and remote work

Because most of our clients are in the United States, we have mastered the art of working remotely
and asynchronously in a way that makes us more, rather than less, efficient.

However, we can only do this with your support! By adopting a remote-first, asynchronous culture,
you will not only improve the quality of our work together, but also the efficiency of your entire
team. Here are some recommendations:

- **Make information public and available.** Do not require team members to ask you for information,
  but make all the details at your disposable available upfront where they can see them. One example
  of this would be describing Scrum stories exhaustively before the start of the sprint, so that
  developers can work on them without having to go through you first. Also, keep all information
  public unless it absolutely needs to be private, so that the entire team can access it if needed.
- **Minimize synchronous communication.** Sometimes, face time is needed to deliver information in
  the appropriate context or to reach consensus around a particularly difficult decision. Most of
  the time, though, asynchronous communication in a Slack channel or a Google document is actually
  the better option: it gives everyone time to collect their thoughts and respond appropriately
  without forcing them to all be present at the same time.
- **Use timezones to your advantage.** Processes should be structured such that any timezone
  differences are a strength, not a weakness. For instance, you could have your development team
  deploy to production when they get to work in the morning and your customers are all going to bed,
  minimizing any service interruptions.

With the right mindset, a remote team can supercharge your project. All it takes is a little effort
and creativity!
